Newsletters: add 324 (2024-10-11) (#1942)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2024-10-11-newsletter.md

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #324'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2024/10/11/
name: 2024-10-11-newsletter
slug: 2024-10-11-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter FIXME

## News

- FIXME:harding btcd disclosure details set to be announced Thursday

## FIXME instagibbs article

FIXME:harding, see PR 1937

## Bitcoin Core PR Review Club

*In this monthly section, we summarize a recent [Bitcoin Core PR Review
Club][] meeting, highlighting some of the important questions and
answers.  Click on a question below to see a summary of the answer from
the meeting.*

[add getorphantxs][review club 30793] is a PR by [tdb3][gh tdb3] that

> adds a new experimental RPC method named `getorphantxs`. Since it is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
adds an experimental `getorphantxs` RPC. Since it is
```

Author: Leaving as-is.  I think both phrasings are fine and this isn't a section I wrote, so I'd prefer to let the original author's version stand.

intended primarily for developers, it is hidden. This new method

> provides the caller with a list of all current orphan transactions,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This new RPC returns a list of all current orphan transactions (optionally with different levels of verbosity),
```

Author: Leaving as-is.  I think both phrasings are fine and this isn't a section I wrote, so I'd prefer to let the original author's version stand.

    send a second compact block message for the same block header.
    Before Bitcoin Core 25.0, this would cause the node to crash, as the
    code was designed to prevent the compact block reconstruction code
    to run more than once on the same compact block session.

    This easily exploitable vulnerability could have been used to crash
    any Bitcoin Core node, which could be used to as part of other
    attacks to steal money from users.  For example, a crashed Bitcoin
    Core node would be unable to alert a connected LN node that a
    channel counterparty was attempting to steal funds.

    The vulnerability was discovered, [responsibly disclosed][topic
    responsible disclosures], and fixed by Niklas Gögge, with the
    [fix][bitcoin core #26898] released in Bitcoin Core 25.0.

  - [DoS from large inventory sets][]: for each of its peers, a Bitcoin
    Core node keeps a list transactions to send to that peer.  The
    transactions in the list are sorted based on their feerates and
    their relationships to each other in an attempt to ensure that the
    best transactions relay fast and to make it harder to probe the
    relay network topology.

>     However, during a surge in network activity during May 2023, several

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    However, during a surge in network activity in May 2023, several
```
(don't want "during" twice)

    users began noticing their nodes using an excessive amount of CPU.

>     Developer 0xB10C was able to determine that the CPU was being

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Developer 0xB10C determined that the CPU was being
```

>     Developer 0xB10C was able to determine that the CPU was being

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Pseudonymous developer 0xB10C was able to determine that the CPU was being
```
(but maybe not, because consistency may then require updates in many other places)

Author: Leaving as-is.  We've been inconsistent about this in the past, for which I apologize, but going forward I don't think it's necessary.  We insert the title "developer" out of necessity to prevent confusion between 0xB10C's nym and conflicting phrasing (e.g. a hex string).  Inserting anything else seems like a distraction.  It's also not possible for us know for certain that someone is (or isn't) using a nym; for all I know "Larry Ruane" is your nym and "0xB10C" is that person's legal name.

    consumed by the sorting function.  Developer Anthony Towns
    investigated further and [fixed][bitcoin core #27610] the problem by

>     ensuring transactions left the queue at a faster rate, especially

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ensuring transactions left the queue more quickly, especially
```

    keep it in this cycle for an extended period of time.  Faulty peers
    that may not have been designed as attackers could trigger the same
    behavior accidentally.

    <!-- I've previously confirmed that "ghost43" (all lowercase) is how
    they'd like to be attributed -->

    The problem was discovered after several developers, including
    William Casarin and ghost43, reported problems with their nodes.
    Several other developers investigated, with Suhas Daftuar isolating
    this vulnerability.  Daftuar also [fixed][bitcoin core #27608] it by
    preventing any peer from affecting the download state of other
    peers, except in the case where a block has passed validation and
    been stored to disk.  The fix was included in Bitcoin Core 25.0.

- **CVE-2024-38365 btcd consensus failure:** as announced in [last
  week's newsletter][news323 btcd], Antoine Poinsot and Niklas Gögge
  [disclosed][pg btcd] a consensus failure vulnerability affecting the
  btcd full node.  In legacy Bitcoin transactions, signatures are stored
  in the signature script field.  However, the signatures also commit to
  the signature script field.  It's not possible for a signature to

>   commit to itself, so signers commit to all the data in signature

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  commit to itself, so signers commit to all the data in the signature
```

  script field except for the signature.  Verifiers must correspondingly
  remove the signature before checking the accuracy of the signature
  commitment.

  Bitcoin Core's function for removing signatures, `FindAndDelete`, only
  removes exact matches of the signature from the signature script.
  The function implemented by btcd, `removeOpcodeByData` removed _any_
  data in the signature script which contained the signature.  This
  could be used to cause btcd to remove more data from the signature

>   script than Bitcoin Core would remove before they respectively

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  script than Bitcoin Core would remove before it respectively
```

?

  verified the commitment, leading one program to consider the commitment
  valid and the other invalid.  Any transaction containing an invalid
  commitment is invalid and any block containing an invalid transaction
  is invalid, allowing consensus between Bitcoin Core and btcd to be
  broken.  Nodes that fall out of consensus can be tricked into
  accepting invalid transactions and may not see the latest transactions
  the rest of the network considers to be confirmed, either of which can

>   result in significant loss of money.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  result in a significant loss of money.
```
or "significant losses of money" but I prefer the above.

  Poinsot's and Gögge's responsible disclosure allowed btcd maintainers
  to quietly fix the vulnerability and release version 0.24.2 with the
  fix about three months ago.

- **Guide for wallets employing Bitcoin Core 28.0:** As mentioned in
  [last week's newsletter][news323 bcc28], the newly released version
  28.0 of Bitcoin Core contains several new features for the P2P
  network, including one parent one child (1P1C) [package
  relay][topic package relay], topologically restricted until
  confirmation ([TRUC][topic v3 transaction relay]) transaction relay,
  [package RBF][topic rbf] and [sibling eviction][topic kindred rbf],
  and a standard pay-to-anchor ([P2A][topic ephemeral anchors]) output
  script type.  These new features can significantly improve security
  and reliability for several common use cases.

  Gregory Sanders has written a [guide][sanders guide] for Optech aimed
  at developers of wallets and other software that uses Bitcoin Core to

>   create or broadcast transactions.  The guide walks through using

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  create or broadcast transactions.  The guide walks through the use
```

additional data for statistics/visualization.

{% include functions/details-list.md
  q0="What is an orphan transaction? At what point do transactions enter
  the orphanage?"
  a0="An orphan transaction is one whose inputs refer to unknown or
  missing parent transactions. Transactions enter the orphanage when
  they are received from a peer but they fail validation with
  `TX_MISSING_INPUTS` in `ProcessMessage`."
  a0link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/30793#l-16"
  q1="What command can you run to get a list of available RPCs"
  a1="`bitcoin-cli help` provides a list of available RPCs. Note: since
  `getorphantxs` is [marked as hidden][gh getorphantxs hidden] as a
  developer-only RPC, it will not show up in this list."
  a1link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/30793#l-26"
  q2="If an RPC has a non-string argument, does anything special need to
  be done to handle it?"
  a2="Non-string RPC arguments must be added to the `vRPCConvertParams`
  list in `src/rpc/client.cpp` to ensure proper type conversion."
  a2link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/30793#l-72"
  q3="What is the maximum size of the result from this RPC? Is there a

>   limit to how many orphans are retained? Is there a limit to how much
>   time orphans can stay in the orphanage?"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  limit to how many orphans are retained? Is there a limit to how
  long orphans can stay in the orphanage?"
```

  and return data from the `emergency.recover` file. This will allow developers
  using the API to add wallet backup functionality to their applications.

- [LDK #3179][] introduces new `DNSSECQuery` and `DNSSECProof` [onion
  messages][topic onion messages], and a `DNSResolverMessageHandler` to handle
  these messages as the core functionality to implement [BLIP32][]. This PR also
  adds an `OMNameResolver` that verifies the DNSSEC proofs and turns them into
  [offers][topic offers]. See Newsletter [#306][news306 blip32].

- [LND #8960][] implements custom channel functionality by adding taproot
  overlay as a new experimental channel type, which is identical to a [simple
  taproot channel][topic simple taproot channels] but commits additional metadata
  in the [tapscript][topic tapscript] leaves for channel scripts. The main
  channel state machine and database are updated to process and store custom
  tapscript leaves. A config option `TaprootOverlayChans` must be set to enable
  support for taproot overlay channels. The custom channels initiative enhances
  LND’s support for [taproot assets][topic client-side validation]. See
  Newsletter [#322][news322 customchans].

> - [Libsecp256k1 #1479][] adds a [MuSig2][topic musig] module for a

Reviewer: Ought the Musig optech topic be updated with this entry?

Reviewer 4: I think so. What to take a crack at it?

Reviewer: Proposed in https://github.com/bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io/pull/1957.

  [BIP340][]-compatible multisig scheme as specified in [BIP327][]. This module
  is almost identical to the one implemented in [secp256k1-zkp][zkpmusig2], but
  has some minor changes, such as removing support for [adaptor
  signatures][topic adaptor signatures] to make it non-experimental.

> - [Rust Bitcoin #2945][] introduces support for [Testnet4][topic testnet] by

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [Rust Bitcoin #2945][] introduces support for [testnet4][topic testnet] by
```

  adding the `TestNetVersion` enum, refactoring the code, and including the

>   necessary parameters and blockchain constants for Testnet4.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  necessary parameters and blockchain constants for testnet4.
```
